Is AI going to create jobs or destroy jobs overall? It Yeah. I think one of the unfortunate things of the narrative in the west is it it will destroy humanity's jobs of like you know you went to an elite school and you studied philosophy. Use myself as an example. Um I did too. Yeah. You it hopefully you have some other skill. That one is going to be hard to market. Uh, and it was thought was hard to market. It was hard to market. Very hard. Uh, it was a good education. A very, very strong education. If you can get a job, you might keep it. But the hard That's what I always thought. It was like, if I finally get a job, I'll probably keep it and do well, but I'm not sure who's going to give me my first job. Um, and uh um uh uh but like techn like technicians. Yeah, if you're a vocational technician or like we're building batteries for a battery company and the people who are doing it in America are doing roughly the same job that Japanese engineers are doing and they went to high school and now they're very valuable if not irreplaceable because we can make them into something different than what they were very rapidly and those jobs are going to become more valuable. Um, I mean, you know, I I not not to diverge into my usual political screeds, but it there are will be more than enough jobs for the citizens of your nation, especially those with vocational training. I do think these these trends really do make it hard to imagine why we should have large scale immigration unless you have a very specialized skill because what about the foundation for white collar work in Europe in the United States has been through the universities but I just heard you say we're going to need more vocational men and women and they may they're going to be but are you also insinuating we're probably going to need less white collar? I think like I think what we need to do is yes, but I I think we need different ways of testing aptitude. You know, it's like um you you know there are a lot of people doing X that should be doing Y. Like if you could manage one of our system like just the person managing our maven system in the US Army is a former police officer who I think went to a junior college and they're doing very very high-end very complicated targeting globally and that person actually is irreplaceable and I think in the past the way we tested for aptitude uh would not have fully exposed how irreplaceable that person's talents are and would they been as talented if they had not gone to their college? Yes. Um and but I think the the I tend to even inside Palunteer if you look at inside Palunteer what am I really doing all day? I'm want walking around figuring out what is someone's outlier aptitude and then I'm putting them on that thing and trying to get them to stay on that thing and not on the five other things they think they're great at like you know keeping their Yeah. It's like well you know everyone at Palanteer every every engineer at Palanteer uh it's it's the most wherever I go in the like for for as you know maybe for 18 years everyone thought we were like a business joke and now lots of business people want my advice you know the only people who don't want my advice at Palanteer about business are Palunteer engineers they're like hey Alex I have an idea about how we could just be in a much better company and it's it's always like yeah it's like it's like literally McDonald's but it's like we should have some titles and you should stop speaking in public. And uh yeah, and then I mean there's probably right about speaking in public sometimes. I certainly admit that. I don't think you uh I don't think you did anything wrong today. Yeah. So uh yeah, thank you for that high praise. One of the keys to success is setting the bar very low. Yes. No, I don't believe that's how you uh operate Palunteer. Um one last question. Where where is this where will the curve of AI go in the utilization uh in the United States and other developed economies? What about the developing economies? How can they participate in this? I mean, I read a research report yesterday that said the application of AI has been so dominant by societies of high education or companies of high education and they're seeing a very big um divergence that is occurring already and it's so much based on the application of education and how that is being utilized. Is AI going to create more um a more a greater imbalance in our in our world in terms of growth? Well, I think the obvious first imbalance is it seems like America and China understand versions of making this work and they're different. Yes. But they both work and they work at scale and I think that is very likely to accelerate way beyond what most people believe is possible. like the discount rate I think and not in the short term but in the long term is way too high on what will be done and how this will impact every aspect of our society and I would say especially on military and then I I tend to be a realist and that I think you know you have wide divergences it's going to be hard to have the kind of discussions people want to have where two countries are and and with a maybe a third following of Russia on the new on like that because they they're so good at fighting But um and then and then I I look I spent and I'll get to the developing world. I spent a lot of my life my most important years and my father's family came from a part of Germany and I I really care about Europe and especially the German parts of Europe uh where I had many of my best years. I still fantasize of going back to grad school for not for the learning reasons. Um uh and um you going to have more fun? Uh I had so much fun. Oh, we we won't go into that. Uh but uh it's like endless. I sometimes when I'm traveling across the country, I just think of grad school. But um uh it's uh uh um but um um uh I I the the tech adoption in in in Europe is a serious and very very structural problem. And what scares me the most is I haven't seen any political leader just stand up and say we have a serious and structural problem that we are going to fix. So that then you get to the developing world. I would imagine it also depends what you mean by the developing world. I would imagine with not enough knowledge you're just going to find pockets that go very well and pockets that go very poorly. As a generalization like again if you go back to this somewhat n unsuccessful salopy I had about the underlying architecture. One way to look at at the unfairness of AI is it pentests meaning it it loadbears on things. So societies that can and organizations and companies that can bear that load have a huge advantage. The problem is if you can't if you've been pretending you're bearing a load you're not it collapses and that's where you have to start. And so if you go around and just say okay what societies and micro cultures are going to be loadbearing here I think you would find that parts of the developing world certain communities in that are going to do very well you you do need a realistic assessment of the loadbearing and there there's a certain honesty that is painful for all of us in in in this technology large language models however implemented in software it you just cannot not obuscate what can bear the load and what can't. And then political structures are built to do just that. Like, yeah, I can't fix anything, but I can give you some line that you want to hear that's going to make you not care about how bad your life is and how much worse it's going to be tomorrow. I can give you that for free. And those that that stuff uh is um that is harder to get away with in this culture. And you know, I I still view myself as a card carrying progressive. And I think it's the single most important thing a progressive could do is go around and say, "Yeah, but the revolution that's coming is going to expose the actual market value of what you're doing, whether we want it or not." Like it's like, I don't even want to know the market value of some of this stuff. But it is over and over a relative rapid period of time. So next three years you're just going to get market value honesty in all sorts of character and communities and micro communities and the best thing you can do if you are in a community whether that is a large community like Germany or a large community larger like America is and you really care for the people you're representing is to say yeah but let's we have to kind of look closely at what what load we can bear. Thank you, Alex. Thank you, everyone.
